Rupya Bank Project - Complete Setup Guide
This guide is designed to help you set up the Rupya Bank project from scratch on a new machine. Follow these steps sequentially to ensure a smooth installation.

📋 Prerequisites
Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed on your system:

Node.js: Version 18 or higher. Download Node.js
Docker Desktop: For running the database. Download Docker Desktop
Python: Version 3.9 or higher. Download Python
Git: For cloning the repository. Download Git
🚀 Step 1: Initial Setup
Clone the repository (if you haven't already):

git clone <repository-url>
cd rupya
Environment Configuration: Copy the example configuration to create your local environment file:

cp .env.example .env
This will set up the correct database URL automatically.

Note: Do not commit the 
.env
 file to version control.

🐳 Step 2: Database Setup
This project uses a PostgreSQL database running in a Docker container.

Open Docker Desktop and ensure it is running.
Open your terminal in the project root (rupya/).
Start the database container:
docker compose up -d
Verify it's running:
docker ps
You should see a container named securebank-postgres with status Up.
📦 Step 3: Backend & Frontend Setup (Next.js)
Install Node dependencies:

npm install
Setup the Database Schema: This command creates the tables in your local database:

npx prisma migrate dev
If prompted for a migration name, you can type init and press Enter.

Seed Initial Data (Optional but recommended): Populate the database with sample users and transactions:

npm run seed
Start the Development Server:

npm run dev
The application is now accessible at http://localhost:3000.

🔄 Daily Startup Guide
Do this every time you want to work on the project:

Start Database (if not running):
docker compose up -d
Start Backend/Frontend:
npm run dev
Start AI Service (in a new terminal):
cd ml-service
uvicorn main:app --reload
🤖 Step 4: AI/ML Service Setup
The fraud detection system runs as a separate Python service.

Open a new terminal window (keep the previous one running).

Navigate to the ML service directory:

cd ml-service
(Note: Ensure you are in ml-service, not ml-services)

Install Python Dependencies:

pip install -r requirements.txt
If pip is not recognized, try using pip3.

Train the Model: Generate the initial fraud detection model:

python train.py
This will create a 
fraud_model.pkl
 file.

Start the API Server:

uvicorn main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000 --reload
The AI service is now running at http://localhost:8000.

✅ Verification
To verify everything is working:

Go to http://localhost:3000 in your browser.
Log in (if you seeded data, check 
prisma/seed.ts
 or database for credentials, usually created during seed).
Navigate to the Transfer page and try a transaction. The AI service should evaluate it.
🛠️ Common Troubleshooting
Port 5432 already in use: If you have another PostgreSQL instance running, docker compose up might fail. Fix: Stop the other instance or edit 
docker-compose.yml
 to use a different port (e.g., "5433:5432") and update your 
.env
 file accordingly.

Prisma Errors: If you see database connection errors, ensure the Docker container is running (docker ps).

Python Module Not Found: Ensure you activated a virtual environment if you use one, or that pip install completed successfully.

